Question 1
Where are the cheapest and most expensive neighborhoods to rent an Airbnb in Denver?
To find a solution to a question like this, we used data that was provided from Airbnb. With this data, we
created a subset with only the Airbnb’s listed in Denver, Colorado. Through several data cleaning methods,
we divided each listing based on its respective neighborhood and took the average of all the prices for
each neighborhood. Once we obtained the average prices of each neighborhood in Denver, we
established a definition for “cheap” and “expensive”. To do this, we narrowed down the neighborhoods
based on price. The data presented a normal distribution when evaluated through a histogram. This
presented the opportunity to gather the standard deviation with respect to the mean in the data. To
determine our definition of cheap, we concluded that anything that falls two standard deviations below
the mean would account for our definition of the term “cheap”. The same method was used to create our
definition of “expensive”, which included collecting all the neighborhoods that fall two standard
deviations above the mean.
With respect to the average price of each neighborhood, we can say with confidence that this statistical
method will be a logical representation of the cheapest and most expensive neighborhoods located in
Denver, Colorado. One can refer to the graph below for a visual representation of our result.
The graph above shows the mean price of every neighborhood in Denver, Colorado. From this data, the
mean of the entire dataset is $148.90. This tells us that an Airbnb in Denver, regardless of neighborhood,
is around $148.90. From this, we found the standard deviation of the dataset which was $46.54. After
taking two standard deviations from the mean, we determined that neighborhoods that average below
$55.85 are considered cheap neighborhoods. Alternatively, we concluded that any neighborhood that
falls above an average of $242.01 is considered an expensive area to book an Airbnb. This logic can be
seen represented in the graph below.
According to our findings, we can infer that Southmoor Park is the cheapest neighborhood in Denver to
rent an Airbnb.
To summarize, our findings showed that Wellshire, Belcaro, and Civic Center are all amongst the costliest. 
While this question is targeted toward consumer spendings, we can also infer that as a host, one can make
potentially greater profits from buying a property in one of the established expensive neighborhoods as
opposed to purchasing in the latter.


Question 2
A potential host has purchased a property at the address 3018 Arapahoe Street in Denver, CO for
$885,000 with the goal of renting it via Airbnb. How much should the owner charge per night to rent
this property? Is there anything to highlight in this listing?
The first course of action to begin analyzing this question was to verify which neighborhood 3018
Arapahoe Street was a part of. With help from Google Maps, we found that the property was in Five
Points. Once we familiarized ourselves with the location of the neighborhood, we began to clean the data
we have from Airbnb. We took the approach of finding the average price of all the listings that matched
the parameters set by the property that the potential host was inquiring about. This included limiting our
search to properties that were in Five Points, were listed as an “Entire home”, and were all three
bedrooms, two baths. This subset returned exactly six different properties in Five Points that met the
criteria of the listing. From this point, we took the average price of all six properties and can confidently
conclude that the average price of a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house in Five Points is around $314.17
a night.
This average, of course, comes with the assumption that the property will only be rented out to an
individual person, or family, at a given time. Because of this, we decided to take an alternative approach.
We created an additional subset of data that investigated the average cost of private rooms in Five Points,
without taking the criteria given into account. The average price of renting out a private room in Five
Points is around $109.32.
Once we established the minimum price that the property should be listed for, we decided to take an
additional step and determine how much profit the potential host would make from listing the price at
the base average. The following steps come with the these given assumptions:
1. The property is rented out year-round.
2. No down payment is given at the time of purchase.
3. If renting private rooms, each room in the house is rented at full capacity during a calendar year.
4. All profits are being used to pay off the house loan as quickly as possible.
5. Home loan interest and additional fees are not considered.
We took the average of a private room in Five Points and multiplied that by how many bedrooms are
listed in the property. In this case, the property has three bedrooms, so we can confidently assume that,
if listed at that base average, the potential host can secure a profit of $327.96 a day. While the difference
of $13.79 can seem miniscule daily, the effects can be seen on an annual basis. If our potential host were
to rent their property out to one individual, or family, at a time at the base average for a full year, the
earnings would be $114,672.05. Alternatively, if the potential host were to rent out private rooms and be
booked at full capacity year-round, they would be looking at gross earnings of $119,705.40. The results
can be seen in the visual representation below. Briefly, we can see that the host has a potential of paying off their property relatively quickly when
compared to a standard 20–30-year loan. Ultimately, the owner will take about seven to eight years to
pay off the property, with a difference in savings of approximately three months if they opt to rent each
room individually rather than the entire property.


Question 3
Can we find a better property in Denver to purchase as a short-term rental? Are some neighborhoods
better than others for buying a short-term rental?
The first step we had to take to begin coming to a solution for this problem is to define “short-term rental”
and the word “better” presented in the question. To establish what constitutes a short-term rental, we
referred to Colorado State law, which defines a short-term rental as a property that is rented for a period
shorter than thirty days (Larkin & Brimah, 2022). Once this was resolved, we then started to question what
would make a neighborhood “better”. We came to the agreement that the only relative factor that a
potential host would be concerned about would be profitability. Therefore, we narrowed down our
findings to only properties that are available for rent for a period less than thirty days and that are in
neighborhoods that are more profitable than others.
once again to the data provided from Airbnb, we tethered our results to only listings that were available
for a maximum of twenty-nine or fewer nights. In addition to the average price per neighborhood, we
wanted to look at what consumers considered to be the amongst the top-rated locations. This type of
user input allowed us to further restrict our findings to short term rentals that are in favorable locations.
Once we cleaned our data to only include listings that are considered short term rentals, we took the
mean of location review scores amongst each neighborhood.
Subsequently, we wanted to further condense our findings. From this new data set, we took a summary
of the review scores and found that three quarters of the review scores are at 4.94. From here, we wanted
all short-term properties that had location ratings of 4.94 or above to find which neighborhoods had the
most favorable locations based on customer reviews. While this returned fifteen potential neighborhoods
that are considered, by our definition, better to buy in, we wanted to limit our results to three
neighborhoods to make things easier for a potential host to invest. To do this, we merged our data with 
the average price per neighborhood, which we found earlier in the first question, to know how much our
potential host can earn from each top-rated neighborhood with prevalent short-term rentals. Below are
our results for the top three neighborhoods we found to be both, in the most favorable neighborhoods
and have the most potential for profitability. 





